---
title: Woman from 2040
description: Musings on metaverse
date: 2022-09-19 17:51:42
draft: false
tags: ['metaverse']
---

Following a visit to [Erik](https://yourweekendreading.substack.com/p/ywr-the-woman-from-2040), the 'Woman from 2040' also paid me a visit. I am not sure this was the same person who visited him, but could well be. Anyway, I wanted to share what she told me.

She started off talking about the metaverse and explained that it is actually quite similar to what we are used to today when browsing the internet. One way to think about it, she said, is that we are currently navigating a 2D version of the metaverse, using our Chrome browser to hop from one website or app to another. The metaverse in 2040 will be a 3D version of the internet as we know it today and will allow us to do a lot more.

Some of the things you could do in the metaverse could be deeply intertwined with the real world. The woman reminded me of Zwift, a cycling simulator connected to a physical trainer that I have been using for the last two years. Your shoes, jersey, and bike would be examples of digital assets that you could buy, sell, or rent. Some of them, like your Ferrari, could be digital replicas of the real thing, but not necessarily. In fact, most digital assets will not have physical counterparts in the real world. There will be a vibrant industry of digital "Zwift equipment" designers to choose from for use in cycling, golf, running, rowing, or even flying simulations (she didn't like the word "simulator" and preferred to use "worlds" or "environments"). And while Zwift today, a California-based company with a fixed number of developers, is struggling to add new routes and mountain ranges to its cycling game, in the metaverse, there will be hundreds of creators who have the tools to create scenic digital cycling routes, each one improving on the work of the other and sharing revenues through pre-defined smart contracts. When I complained about the poor quality of graphics today, she told me to "just wait and see."

The physical office will still exist (most likely in your house, in a country and city of your choosing), but your digital office will be what matters, as it will be where your interactions with clients and colleagues take place. Trying to be relatable, the woman said it will be "a bit like a 3D version of Zoom." However, it will not be Zoom or Microsoft managing the communications between your colleagues and clients. Instead, it will be one of the many private and secure protocols that allow for endless customizations and interoperability between metaverses. The digital office space can be beautifully decorated using art bought from other artists, created by yourself, or borrowed from museums. For example, the Picasso Museum in Barcelona will rent out a limited number of digital versions of Pablo's work each year. Various DAOs (Decentralized Autonomous Organizations) will be responsible for validating the authenticity of digital assets in the metaverses. The "digital persona" that you carry across different metaverses is owned and controlled by you, only providing access to the different environments you enter. For example, when visiting a doctor in the NHS metaverse, you would provide the doctor with 60 minutes of access to your real name, heartbeat, and history of previous medical visits, and nothing else. The infrastructure facilitating various tasks, such as payments, data storage and handling, monitoring, and sharing results, works seamlessly together, as easy as dragging and dropping files on an operating system today. Finally, she reiterated what she told you. The underlying theme making all of this happen is decentralization and the ability for the world to create, send, exchange value on its own terms, regardless of background, nationality, location, race, or religion. It truly creates an equal playing field and opens up a new dimension of the internet as we know it today.

After this hour-long conversation with the Woman from 2040, I thought I would also benefit from a beverage or two while digesting all of this.